
[09:03]
  --- logged in ---

[09:07]
  Okay, so it shouldn't be as your voucher will not be a problem. Let me share my
  screen. One moment. Okay, can you guys see my vs code? I will also turn on the
  recording. So, let's start by creating day 11. Is everyone here? I presume.
  Okay, so I'll take the latent attendance during the break time. So, let's start
  creating. Our folder folder is day 11. Okay, inside this, I would create another
  folder and I would call it as state management. State Management. And create
  your main.tf file. Inside the state Management. Please check your path here in
  the editor to know where you have created the file. Keep a look at that. Okay,
  shall we proceed with the code? Okay. Before I start my code last week, uh, on
  Friday, we learned about terraform block. Correct? Terraform block. Can you tell
  me what is the need of this block?

[09:10]
  Its control, the behavior of the tool.
  How, yes, it maintains the configuration details. But how? There are three
  important things that your terraform block can do. What are those?
  Rules. Okay, what kind of rules three rules tell me those rules rules? Yes. What
  kind of rules can I see here if I want to implement a new rule? What kind of
  rule can I put into terraform block? Think.

[09:11]
  Rules. Okay, what kind of rules three rules tell me those rules rules? Yes. What
  kind of rules can I see here if I want to implement a new rule? What kind of
  rule can I put into terraform block? Izzy, do you know what kind of rule can I
  put here? In the terraform block.
  Required providers on version.
  Yes, menu. Okay, a required providers perfect, so not mostly generally. It is
  required provider versions, so I will write it as provider version. Okay. Next.
  Terraform version itself to fix. The terraform version. And what is the third
  one?

[09:12]
  Back end.
  Back end super? Very, very important backend. So, we studied about this backend,
  as in at least I mentioned this term back end when I was explaining terraform
  block, and now we will learn about this back end thoroughly. Okay, so when we
  talk about backend? What is this back end? Why is it used? This mostly talks
  about where your state file should be present. Okay, where you want to keep your
  state file generally. There are two types of backends one is local backend, and
  the second one is a remote backend. Okay, so what are the two types? First one
  is local backend. And the second one is remote backend. Is this clear? There are
  two types any doubts? So far, okay, in local backend. What happens? Whenever I
  run terraform, apply the state file gets created in my working directory. For
  example, let's see if I have any state file. Not sure, but let's check. Okay,
  um, no, I have deleted almost all the state files. Okay, if I go to Day 2, okay,
  at least here. Do you see a state file here? So, wherever I do, terraform apply
  in that working directory. I will see my state file being created. So when does
  that happen automatically in the background, you have set backend equal to
  local. This is a default setting. Is this clear? We did not see this term
  earlier. We just observed that a state file got created by terraform. Basically,
  terraform is creating the state file. Upon executing this, apply command. But in
  the back end. What is happening in in inside your terraform tool? Basically, you
  are setting this back end equals to local value. Okay, so you're getting a file
  here in the local machine? Today, we will learn about how to set backend equal
  to remote. Okay, why is it used? What is it used? Where can I store this packet?
  All of that we will learn today. Before I go into that, let's start writing our.
  Um, data form blog inside main.tf. Terraform. I will write a required providers.
  See the spelling. Aws and I would also write the version here. Let this be 6.
  Five and above. Okay, and after this, I will set a back end. Equals. Local, see.
  I'm setting a back end equal to local. Clear. And here I can set any path I want
  where I want my state file to be created. I can set any path that I want. Okay,
  generally. What we do, we create. Um, the state file in the working directory
  itself. So, now, what I'll do, I will just change the path. But part is where I
  give the location of my state file. So generally, what happens your current
  working directly, which is nothing but State Management here. This working
  directory will consider will be considered as your path to create your file, but
  now I will change the path. What I will say? I will. Um. Test slash terraform
  dot. I will also change. Dot TF State. So, what I'm doing instead of getting
  created your state file in the working directory. I am also creating another
  subfolder in the current working directory call desk test and I want my state
  file to reside within this test folder. Is this clear? Any doubt? Any questions
  here? Check this and tell me if you guys understood this code. This is clear to
  everyone, right? Okay, now I will start writing a very simple surface, which is
  nothing but.
