
[09:06]
  --- logged in ---

[09:50]
  revising all the services because from Monday onwards, we will be going to
  Terraform Okay, what's the plan for today? The plan for today and tomorrow is,
  we will be Okay. And what is Terraform Terraform is infrastructure as code and
  is one of the most important service for us Clear. and we will be having a
  certifications on Terraform, so,

[09:51]
  revising all the services because from Monday onwards, we will be going to
  Terraform Okay, what's the plan for today? The plan for today and tomorrow is,
  we will be Okay. And what is Terraform Terraform is infrastructure as code and
  is one of the most important service for us Clear. and we will be having a
  certifications on Terraform, So in order for us to go to TERRAFORM basics of the
  services are needed, for example, like VPC EC2, EBS and your subnets. And S3.
  Okay. That's the reason why in Module 1 in AWS one, we are covering the
  foundational services along with your infrastructure. Is that clear? Any
  questions so far? okay then, so today we will Yes.
  The first module is going to be finished till Monday.
  No, no. You still have four more weeks so in total the first, okay, let me share
  my screen. I just have one screen guys today, so you should bear with me. Where
  is it?
  When this?
  Performance also included in this first material.
  Exactly. Yeah. So terraform is also included in your first module Okay. Can you
  guys see my screen? Correct. So First module. AWS. One is for how long it is for
  10 weeks. Okay, and by this Friday, we will be completed with six weeks. Okay?
  So two weeks in your May and four weeks in June. So in total, it is six weeks
  that we have completed so far and from Sixth of July, Okay, from 6th of July.
  For the next four weeks. We will be working on Terraform. Is that clear? Okay,
  remember guys. The terraform module is mostly hands-on. And that when I say
  hands-on, how are we doing it? Everybody is going to use vs code. You will get
  familiarized on how to use your it. Is code ID and then you will write the code
  and it is an HCl language. Okay. And the more and more, you practice hands-on,
  it is better for you to prepare for your exam. because the entire exam, Whatever
  questions you get, it is mostly on what code you execute and what intermediate
  answers you get. Okay, so again, your terraform is for, I think it's how you
  have 60 questions. so, Remember in AWS when you do your certifications in AWS,
  let's say you have done solutions, architect associate. The validation of the
  certificate is for three years. Okay? If you take the certification so it is
  valid up to three years, why? Because every year there are new services that are
  getting launched. So is the reason there's a validation. But what about
  terraform Terraform is even bad. The certification is valid only for two years.
  So if you take the certificate in 2026, it is valid till 2028. Only after that,
  you need to retake the certification. Why? What is the need? Everything? We will
  learn when we go to Terraform module on Monday. Clear. Remember, on Monday, when
  we start the module, I want all of you to have your laptop and you need to have
  your DS code. Those who don't have vs code installed. I will send a couple of
  videos with to you on your slack channel. On the installation of your VS code in
  your system. Is that clear? Okay, why are we doing this terraform again? if you
  guys see your AWS course, there is one week, sorry, not one week, one month,
  Which is nothing but four weeks, dedicated for project. How are you creating
  this project, you're going to set up some services on the cloud using Terraform?
