
[09:02]
  --- logged in ---

[09:08]
  Who.
  Okay, so you created egress ingress validate and fmt, right? Yes, Khadim.
  You please device on that day. I was a little bit sick here.
  Yes, we will do that. Today I have certain topics that I want to cover and once
  we are done, that we will go through the topics from Friday. If not today, I
  will definitely do the revision of Friday on tomorrow, basically and tomorrow's
  class. Okay, because I wanted to know what topics did he cover? So that I can be
  also prepared with examples for that. Clear. So basically he did security groups
  and your fmt and validate, right? So we will do that. Don't worry. Okay, any
  other questions? Anything else that you want to know? If not let us start, I
  will share my screen. I will start the recording. Okay, can everyone see the
  screen? Perfect. So today we will learn about something called as data types.
  Okay, so before we start data types, does anyone know what is a date? What is
  data? Type mean. Why is it needed? One moment before we start. Do you guys see
  the recording has begun. Do you see anything like that? Because on my end it is
  showing continuous buffering.

[09:10]
  We can show him you.
  Same. You are not able to see the recording, right?
  Yes.
  I can't even stop it and restart. Okay, one moment let me try okay. Now it has
  begun. Correct. Perfect. Okay, so My question was, What do you mean by data
  type? The type. Why is this data type needed?
  Because we have different values.
  We have different values, but how does this help? Why is this needed?
  To community community. With each.

[09:11]
  To community community. With each other.
  To communicate, what kind of communication are you doing here? If I don't
  include data type, what is going to be the problem?
  Different data types.
  Yeah, so if I don't include this data type in my code, what will be the problem
  for the user?
  It doesn't know if he will write characters or numbers.

[09:12]
  Perfect. So basically he will not be able to know what kind of input to be
  given. Correct. you don't know what kind of input to give whether you want to
  give a string, which is nothing but characters, whether you want to give a
  number Whether it is a list. Dictionary, There are so many data types, right? So
  data types, play a vital role for us to identify how the input has to be
  provided. Clear or what kind of input that you need to give? So now in your
  terraform, there are separate different data types. We need to know Why? Because
  you will get at least one question on your data types. They will give one
  question on data type, okay? So they will give one entire code and they will
  give also give you the data type. They will ask you how you can fetch it how you
  can access a particular variable from your default or from your TF first. For us
  to know that we need to understand the data types thoroughly. Is that?
  Perfect. So basically he will not be able to know what kind of input to be
  given. Correct. you don't know what kind of input to give whether you want to
  give a string, which is nothing but characters, whether you want to give a
  number Whether it is a list. Dictionary, There are so many data types, right? So
  data types, play a vital role for us to identify how the input has to be
  provided. Clear or what kind of input that you need to give? So now in your
  terraform, there are separate different data types. We need to know Why? Because
  you will get at least one question on your data types. They will give one
  question on data type, okay? So they will give one entire code and they will
  give also give you the data type. They will ask you how you can fetch it how you
  can access a particular variable from your default or from your TF first. For us
  to know that we need to understand the data types thoroughly. Is that clear?
  Okay, so let us start. Did everyone open your VS code? Okay. I hope you guys can
  see my screen. So let us start as usual by creating our day 6 because day 5 was
  done by. Rohan. So I will go to a folder called as Day 6 folder. And inside this
  folder. I will create a new file called, as Main.tf. Okay. So in the main dot
  TF, first block is your provider block. I will go back and just copy my provider
  block. Copy. And paste it here. This access key. And secret key is your personal
  one.

[09:14]
  Can you copy that in the chat? Maybe.
  So, you will not be using my Okay. so we will go ahead with a simple resource
  which is nothing but easy to so for me to create an EC2, what are the important
  Features or characteristics that I need to take care.
  Fire. Okay.
  If I want to create an EC2, what are the two things, or more than two things
  that you consider? Yes, Mohammad.
  Island instance type.
  AMI and Instance type rest everything I can skip why because there are default
  values assigned. So in automatically default will be selected but AMI and
  instance types are the mandatory fields. Without AMI, you will not be able to
  identify the operating system without your instance type. You don't know your
  RAM and virtual CPU. Is that clear? okay, so now instead of writing the code
  directly, what I'll do is if you go and see The Code of Day 4. I want you guys
  to go and check the day for folder. I know. Rohan has also covered couple of
  things but just go to day four, if you see in Day 4, What did I write? I had a
  Main.tf and the Main.tf had the whole variable section here, right? And along
  with the variable section, I also included a resource block. Correct. I will
  follow the same structure here in today's class. Because anyways, I know the
  first variable that I need is going to be my ami. Correct. Let's do. Variable.
  Am I? Description. And I will not write the default here. Because by now we know
  how to use TF verse file. How to give the value via your terminal, we know all
  the details. So I don't want to give any value here as a default Okay. So now we
  know AMI is of what type it is a string type, correct. Why? Because it has both
  characters. Plus numbers. And along, with that, you also have special
  characters. Correct. So all three together I can call it as a stringer. Yes,
  Khadim.

[09:16]
  Channel, If you do not know the doctor type, we can skip this field or not.
  If I don't know, the data type.
  Good.

[09:17]
  Generally, you will always know the data type. Why? Because now, if I know,
  because generally what happens, here I go back to my previous day, Four folder
  and do you see this ami here? so, looking at this ami, you can clearly identify
  what kind of data type it is going to be Okay, and now same thing applies for
  your instance type as well. Just looking at this. I can identify, what is the
  data type? So here also for your instant type, it is a string. Clear. So I'll go
  back and now let us create another variable. That is going to be instance type.
  So, see string here and now along with this, I will also include a default. So
  now we are familiar with string, right? Okay, does anyone know what is bull?
  Boolean. Any idea what is Boolean?

[09:18]
  0 and 1.
  Zero and one. Okay, instead of telling zero and one, can you just represent it
  in other format? So basically Boolean has two values zeros and one correct. In
  another format. How do we represent?
  True and false.
  True or false.
  To roof.
  Perfect, true and false. True and false. So see, true stands for your one falls
  is your zero. Clear. So true and false, we know this Boolean where it holds only
  to values. Clear. Now let me quickly share my Okay. I hope you guys can see this
  registry. Okay, so here, I'm already in AWS instance, for those who don't have
  this, I will share the link here in the chat. Did you guys open this? Okay, so
  what is needed here? I'll go to argument reference. I have already mentioned
  here on the right side. You have all the indexes Okay, so from that, I will go
  to argument reference. Okay. And here let us search for. Adiate. Public IP. Do
  you see here? Do you see this? So, what does it mean? It's an optional field and
  it is telling whether to associate a public IP address. Within an instance, with
  an instance, in a VPC. So, basically, it is telling whether to make your EC2 a
  public or private, Okay. So, if you want to make it public, then I will use this
  associate public IP, and I will give a value for that. And I still don't know
  how to use this. Okay, let me see. Is there any option? One moment. Okay. We
  know this, we have a value called as associate. Public IP. And I will use that
  particular associate public IP for my variable. Okay, as of as a variable in
  your EC2 instance, So associate public IP. So this is a Boolean option. Clear,
  so now what I do, I go back to my code. And here I will create another variable.
  Variable. Enable IP public ip. I will call it as Enable. Underscore. Public
  Underscore IP. Okay. And let's write the description for this. So now, if you
  see Enable public IP value for the EC2 instance and the type is a Boolean type
  whether it is true or false. Okay, now what I'll do, I will give default As
  false. That means what kind of an EC2 is this? if the default is false, Private,
  perfect. It's going to be a private instance. Is that clear? Any doubt. Okay,
  now let us talk about something called as a list. Are you guys familiar with
  list in Python? If you're familiar with list, please tell me what is a list What
  is it?

[09:23]
  Collection of types. What kind of
  It's a collection of. Types. Or or or items.
  Of. some kind of type like,
  Can you give me an example?
  list of
  sorry.
  For example, like a collection of arrays. So list of arrays or strings, sorry.

[09:25]
  Okay, so this the second example, what you gave was correct? What is it list of
  strings when I talk about list? The major important thing that we need to take
  care here is it's a collection of similar data type or same data type. For
  example, this A B. C. D. Now if you see this, what is this? This is a collection
  of string, correct? It's a collection of string. so in between this, Can I
  include one? Or can I include? Plus and there is no because they are going to be
  a different data types. You'll not be able to include any other data types in
  your collection. So list is a special kind of data type where all the collection
  are supposed to be of the same type as if it is string, then it has to be
  completely string. If it is number then it has to be completely numbers. Is that
  clear a specific type? Okay, now I will click Create a Variable. And I will call
  it as employee ID. Okay, we'll call it as an employee ID. And let me give a
  description. Okay, so instead of type considering it as a string, the type I
  will call it as list of string. So that means what it's a collection of similar
  data type and that two specifically string data type only. Any doubts. And I
  would like to use a default section here. So, let us use a default. My question.
  How do you represent? A string. Sorry a list.

[09:26]
  Air bracket.

[10:09]
  --- Meeting ended ---

[10:21]
  --- logged in ---
  Here, descendants, especially. Okay, let's see. How does it change? Do you see
  the structuring? What happened? How did this get to know which structure to
  follow? So for yes. Default, one of what? no, it's for It is.

[10:27]
  Here, descendants, especially. Okay, let's see. How does it change? Do you see
  the structuring? What happened? How did this get to know which structure to
  follow? So for yes. Default, one of what? no, it's for It is trying to follow
  the default version of your HCl formatting. The Programming Language. The
  programming language that you're using here is nothing but your head SEAL has
  she called configuration language? Okay, has your configuration language has
  something specific. instead of formatting, there is also another term for that
  it is nothing but indentation Have you guys heard of this term indentation?
  Equal to default equal to. I can see something.
  How do you indent from the margin from the margin? How much gap are you giving?
  And how is it formatted within one block? Within one particular.
  Before.
  Variable Block, How are you? Formatting this code. How do you know the same
  format works perfectly fine? This is nothing but the indentation policy of your
  HCl language. Yes, Khadim. Adder. Okay, okay. One moment. okay, so now you see
  here, Fmt is just checking for the indentation. Generally, what happens? There
  are two type of indentation. First type of indentation is giving four spaces. In
  a block. And the second type of indentation is giving two spaces in a block. Two
  Spaces Versus Four Spaces. What does it mean? so now you see here, this
  description Okay. So I can also write the same thing with the tab space, which
  is four spaces. If not, I can also write the same thing with two spaces. Always
  remember if you use Tab, Tab Key In your keyboard, it is equal to four spaces.
  Okay, one tab is equal to 4 spaces. Clear. So it depends on your whether you
  want to give four spaces or two spaces HCl can follow both. Okay, so generally
  takes up two spaces. Sometimes, it can also take up four spaces, for example.
  Now, you see here, the default is a block, correct, basically, you're writing a
  block from here to here, all the values are, if you see from the default, you
  are giving two space, From the default section, for example. Now, if you see
  here, I will just remove one two here and I can also give two space, one, two,
  It is giving two space indentation. So HCl, generally follows two space
  Okay. Logical letter or simple. I ask you guys to do addition. And my code is
  something like this. X. Minus Y, is equal to total. I'm asking you guys to do
  addition, but what is my equation here? My equation is having a subtraction.
  This is a logical error. The code, The expression that I'm writing the logic
  that I'm writing itself is wrong. I'm expecting for an sum but I'm getting a
  difference here. This is a logical error. Your implementation problem. You are
  writing the wrong wrong code, wrong script. Clear. So your validate cannot check
  for your implementation detail. Your validate will not tell that you want. You
  need to include VPC. Your validate will not tell that you need to have security
  groups these details. Your validate will not tell Those are your requirements.
  How you want to set?
  indentation, it can also follow four space indentation. How does this
  indentation work? There is a specific indentation or structuring for HCl. So
  when you run FMT, it is following the default structuring pattern of your HCl
  language. Only Is that clear? Any doubts. Khadimir, Share your screen. ah,
  default line, 45 bears, your line 45 Okay, who can tell what's the issue here?
  Default equal to just give a space there. A type specification is either a
  primitive keyword. One second. This is an object, correct. Okay. What is the
  problem? The major problem is after the type, he did not close the bracket. That
  is the problem. So can you go to line number 50? Line Number 50, Yes, remote.
  Remove those two. Okay. Go to line number 44. End of the line 44. Go to a new
  line. Okay, now you close the bracket. Flower bracket and Round bracket. Remove
  that hash one. Okay, close the round brackets. Why down brackets? Because in
  your line 42, you have a open. Yes. now, go to your terminal and run terraform
  fmt and see Okay, terraform in it. Yeah. And terra four minute. It will work.
  Don't worry.
  No problem. So, what was the issue? The major issue was. After you write, when
  you write the type, you have opened the bracket, you need to close the bracket
  before you go to the default because type is a different blog. Default is a
  different block. Is this clear? Okay, so now we understood about Fmt. The next
  few questions that they would ask about fmt. Can your fmt do validation, check
  can it check for errors? Question to you all. Answer is no. Fmt cannot do error
  checking. It cannot find any errors in your code. So, your fmt is only to
  beautify your code. Just it is the only used for beautification. To make it
  structured, so that person who sees the code it will, it should be very easy for
  them to read readable format. Okay. It can do nothing pertaining to the errors
  or the logic. So even if you skip, the fmt doesn't matter. Okay, the next
  command is Terraform validate. What is this command do? Terraform validate. Why
  is it used? What does it do?
  Check. If there are any syntax error.
  Perfect. There are two types of error. Okay, one is syntax error. And what is
  the second error? Sorry Mohammad. Can you repeat?
  Good logical error.
  Logical error. Perfect. There are two types of errors syntax error and logical
  error. Your validate can only check syntax error. It has nothing to do with the
  logical error. Make a note, One more question for your exam. Can your Styrofoam
  validate? Check for logical errors. Answer is no. So what is the syntax error
  versus logical error? Syntax means you have certain keywords, for example,
  skipping the brackets, skipping the equals or your, you have written some wrong
  keyword, instead of variable you have written as variables. So let's say some
  Undefined keywords you're using. when such kind of keywords are using and there
  is some Error, In terms of closing, the brackets or structuring, or skipping the
  keywords, then you can use this validate. You can run this terraform validate
  command. What does it do? It goes through your code in your main dot TF and
  checks for syntax errors. Only What is logical error? Who can describe, what is
  a logical error?
  If I define that,
  Unimplementation error.
  Mmm, many what is it?
  now about our implementing code, the code,
  Implementation error. Okay.
  Yeah. All right.
  Yes, Khadim, anything you want to add?
  Know by mistake I help us.
  Okay, Mohammad anything you want to add to this logical error.
  and if I define another type like a string, but I plus a value for polio
  Okay. Logical letter or simple. I ask you guys to do addition. And my code is
  something like this. X. Minus Y, is equal to total. I'm asking you guys to do
  addition, but what is my equation here? My equation is having a subtraction.
  This is a logical error. The code, The expression that I'm writing the logic
  that I'm writing itself is wrong. I'm expecting for an sum but I'm getting a
  difference here. This is a logical error. Your implementation problem. You are
  writing the wrong wrong code, wrong script. Clear. So your validate cannot check
  for your implementation detail. Your validate will not tell that you want. You
  need to include VPC. Your validate will not tell that you need to have security
  groups these details. Your validate will not tell Those are your requirements.
  How you want to set up? What is the responsibility of validate? It can only
  check for keyword issues, it can only check for incomplete code. It can only
  check if you have skipped the flower brackets, Okay, and that is why we call it
  as syntax error. Is this clear? So validate can only check for syntax error, any
  doubts. Any questions? No doubt, it's no questions. Let's go. Anyways, we have
  done terraform validate. Now, I will do Okay, before I go for Terraform apply.
  I'm just looking at this and I see here. Ami value is not provided, right? There
  is no default value when there is no default value. And if I do apply what
  happens, There is no default value for the AMI. yes, Mohammad

[10:29]
  I will check the file data forms Dot dfrs. If not, he will take the default one
  if not, you will ask in the terminal.
  Perfectly basically here since there is no nothing called as terraform.tf us. Do
  I see anything like that here? No, I don't see anything like that. So that means
  there is only one possibility Since there is also, no default value, what will
  it do? It will ask for the input in the terminal. if we ask for the input in the
  terminal, Is that clear? So now let us try to do that but before I do that, I
  want to go and copy my ami. This is the Ami. I will also share it with you here
  in the chat. Okay. Let me run Tara form. Apply how to skip the intermediate
  confirmation step.

[10:32]
  How to approve?
  Auto proof. So, basically whenever I run terraform apply in the background,
  there is a plan that is getting executed. So if I want to skip the intermediate
  approval stage, I have to use this auto approve Enter, it will ask for my Ami.
  So I will paste the AMI. And immediately, it will give me the plan and it will
  start creating the instance, check everyone. Meanwhile, I will also open my
  Cloud. Do you see your instance being created? Everyone? Any errors, feel free
  to share your screen if there are any errors. Yes, Roger Error. Share your
  screen.
  Around 663.
  I don't see your screen yet. Can other see his screen. No, right.
  Okay, sorry.
  Try to reshare, let's see if you can. By the time, I will also log into my
  console. Perfect. This object doesn't have an attribute named environment ID.
  Okay, where is it?
  Line Number 63. Okay, can you show me tag minus E and variable? Where is your
  tag? Minus E and B variable. Show me that variable. Okay, do you see here? Stop?
  What is the problem? See this is a learning for every one of you. Just now I
  said when we talk about object, object has a specific structure. structure is
  defined but now you see here in Roger's type line number 44, Okay.

[10:35]
  Line Number 63. Okay, can you show me tag minus E and variable? Where is your
  tag? Minus E and B variable. Show me that variable. Okay, do you see here? Stop?
  What is the problem? See this is a learning for every one of you. Just now I
  said when we talk about object, object has a specific structure. structure is
  defined but now you see here in Roger's type line number 44, Okay, if you go to
  line number 44, you have written, only E and v line, number 44, and 45. You are
  telling type object and you have written only E and me. But when you go to the
  same default, Look at the default line. Number 14, vine, you have written envy
  id.
  He?
  And that is. Where is causing an issue? Because in the type, you are not fixing
  the key. When you're not fixing the key in the type, you will not be able to use
  the default value. Okay, go to line number 45 at the end. Create a new line.
  Okay, and right here, Envid. Underscore ID. Equals number. So, is that clear
  because he was supposed to specify the structure in the structure, which is
  nothing, but the type, he skipped the envid, but when he tries to run, it is
  throwing an error. Okay, now you do execute the command Terraform apply. Okay,
  give you an ami. It's there in the chat.
  Perfect. So see you. You could have included that auto approved stage then you
  could have skipped this option. Anyways, so just say yes and continue. Type, yes
  and proceed.
  Yeah, thank you. No, it's working.
  Perfect. I'm trying to log into my console. Give me a second. Okay, let's
  refresh. I see only eight instances. Milan niyant.
  Still, it gives her for me. I don't know.

[10:36]
  One is from Julian, and one is from blood, okay? So
  You see?

[11:24]
  --- Meeting ended ---
