
[09:17]
  --- logged in ---
  placeholder.

[09:25]
  placeholder, I can put any value. I want here, any value I want. I just have an
  empty space. I have a empty variable in this, I can put any value Doesn't
  matter. What is the advantage if I have variables for ami? Anybody with any
  requirement? If they want to set up a single EC2 instance, one single script
  will be sufficient. Clear one single script is sufficient for different
  purposes. When you want to set up one easy to instance of any Ami, any instance
  type one script is sufficient. Is this clear? How to do that. Let's see. Now, I
  need to Create variables. So in the same script, I will start creating
  variables. So wherever I see my hard coded values, I will change them. For
  example, I will change the value for ami. I would change the value for instance,
  type and i will change the value for the tag. Is that clear? Okay, like how to
  do that? I hope you guys have copied this. Okay. Now but I, after your provider
  block, I want you guys to start with the term called as variable, This is a
  keyword. Remember Variable has a keyword. Is this clear? Okay. And I told you
  it's a placeholder. That means I need to give a name for the variable. So let me
  say my first variable is AMI. Am I is my first variable. And second. Okay, now
  when I talk about variable, there are a couple of things that I need to provide.
  Moment, let me just discard this part. okay, so now you see this, I put to the
  bottom We'll just focus on how to write a variable. Okay. So now, look at this
  variable has couple of things. What are those couple of things? Please make a
  note of this. Variable section will have. First thing. Is description. Okay.
  Second thing. Type. Second thing is the type. Third thing is your default value.
  What is it? The third thing is your default value. Please make a note, a
  variable section can have three parts. Description, type and default. Your next
  question is Are we supposed to write all the three? No. Not required. Okay. See
  now please make a note of this which is mandatory here. Only the type field is
  mandatory Rest to fields are optional. Your description is optional. Okay, your
  default is optional. You might ask. What is this description? I'm not
  understanding. That's totally fine. Just keep this in mind because right when I
  create my very first variable and I execute it, you will see certain changes in
  the output that is when you'll slowly start understanding what is happening. Is
  that clear? Okay, so now you see variable blocks generally has three parts. What
  are those three parts description? Part type part and default. And in these
  three parts, your type is the only mandatory field rest to you can skip Those
  are optional. Even if you don't write, that is totally fine. Okay, but
  generally, it is recommended to include it. Okay? Now let us see. Let us write
  our very first. Am I block AMI variable clear. As I said, What is the first
  part? It's a description. Okay, I will say and The AMI value. Okay, now you see
  just look at my screen and tell me you see your ami here? Can anybody tell me
  what is the data type of this ami? Data type. I have numbers. I have alphabets.
  What is the data type? Hexadecimal. String, perfect.
  Double. No.
  Oh oh, what is double? who said, Double What is double? You introduced a new
  term? I want to know. What is double. Where have you heard this double? You
  heard this double in Python? I know. But what is double? It's a float number.
  Float when you have a decimal value. Decimal for example, like 70 to point point
  six, six six six here. When you have values like this, where you have continuous
  decimal values. That is when I write double. Is that clear? When you see my ami,
  do you see any decimal value here? There is no decimal value. you have
  alphabets, and you have Numbers. someone said, Hexadecimal. Who said that
  hexadecimal? Why did you come to a conclusion that it's a hexadecimal? If it is
  a hexadecimal, what is the last character that you see? You have 0 to 9, for
  sure? Okay. And after 0 to 9 from a till what number what alphabet do you see in
  hexadecimal F. Okay you see from A to f do you see here a M and I where did this
  character come? In extra decimal, I don't say M. And I Correct. So this is not
  hexadecimal. Then what is this? And one more important thing in Excel Decimal, I
  will not see this hyphen. Do you see your hyphen here? So this is a group of
  characters and random characters. So when when we say random characters, where I
  see alphabets numbers and special characters, I generally call it as a string.
  Correct. Is this clear? Any doubts? Any questions? No questions. So what is an
  AMI? AMI data type is nothing but a string, so let me go back and I will include
  a data type here. Type. Equals string. It's a keyword string is a keyword. Okay,
  so let me give a space here. Type is String. Then what? Default value. I need to
  include. So, default. Okay, as of now, I will not include default. Let us talk
  about default later, so let I will skip the default. I will just write
  description and type. Okay. Is this clear? Tell me. Did you guys include this?
  Any doubts any questions? No.

[09:26]
  You did it here locally? We talking about visibility and you did it here in a
  local file so you cannot use it outside. That's why I.
